---
title: (s)frxETH's Mechanism trade-offs
subtitle: Yield, Liquidity and Integrations
date: 2022-11-27 12:00:00 +0000
categories: [DeFi]
tags: [defi]
---

## The Mechanism

**frxETH**: 
- ERC-2612 loosely pegged to ETH, given that 1 frxETH represents 1 ETH staked with Frax. 
- Does not receive staking yield.

**sfrxETH**: 
- Obtained by depositing frxETH into the sfrxETH vault (ERC-4626).
- Staking yield accrued by the total underlying ETH staked accrues to this vault by minting and adding new frxETH to it.
- sfrxETH holders own the underlying frxETH in the vault proportionally to their ownership of total sfrxETH. sfrxETH can be converted back to frxETH, withdrawing from the vault.



## Incentives

All else being equal, sfrxETH will receive higher ethereum staking yield than other token representations of staked ETH positions.

- **sfrxETH_yield = ETH_staking_yield / (% frxETH_supply ⊂ sfrxETH_vault) - frax_fee**

As the amount of frxETH in the sfrxETH vault will always be less than (or, in an extreme case, equal to) the supply of frxETH. As such, we have from the formula above that:
- **sfrxETH_yield >= ETH_staking_yield - frax_fee**

In practice, this happens because there are frxETH holders not receiving ETH staking yield that are subsidizing higher yield for their sfrxETH counterparts.




## Drawbacks of the Mechanism


### **Use as Collateral**:

One of the main and best use cases of LSDs is as collateral. Either as: 
1. A replacement to ETH for leveraging, borrowing against to farm, shorting other assets, etc
2. Or for the new LSD-enabled use case of leveraged staking (leveraging up on LSD collateral and borrowing/shorting ETH to do so).

The liquid token in the Frax design -- frxETH -- is a ***strictly worse collateral than both* ETH and other LSDs**. It has higher risk (smart contract, economical and trust-wise) than ETH *and* no yield like stETH/rETH/cbETH would. 
Furthermore, the leveraged staking use case is made impossible since frxETH has no yield to leverage up on.


### Cost of Liquidity

All ethereum liquid staking protocols incentivize liquidity for their tokens in some way.
- On the one hand, LSD-ETH pools are normally not heavily traded against and as such generate low fee yield for LPs. 
- On the other hand, LPs incur opportunity cost by holding half of their position in non-yielding ETH -- cutting in ~half the total staking yield they could be receiving if holding the LSD plain instead of LPing it.
- Because of this, to make LPing economically interesting, protocols normally direct token emissions (their own or from bribes) largely to compensate for the yield not being made by the ETH portion + the additional smart contract/pool risk LPs take.
- TVL in LSD-ETH pools normally tends towards a value where LPs are receiving sligthly more overall yield than they would holding just the LSD.

Frax will also incentivize frxETH pools in DeFi. It will be done with a mix of CRV emissions from protocol owned CVX votes and FXS emissions. (The method used for directing incentives to frxETH LPs is not relevant for the overall mechanism analysis here.)

However, frxETH-ETH LPs are not receiving staking yield on either side of the pair -- contrary to other LSD-ETH LPs who receive it on ~half of their capital.
Because of this, **the incentives cost for Frax, per dollar of TVL in frxETH-ETH pools is strictly higher** than it would be for any other LSD-ETH pool in DeFi (fluctuating around 2x higher).

- To have the same TVL as a competing LSD pool, Frax would have to spend around 2x more in incentives
- To spend the same amount in incentives, frxETH-ETH pools would have around half the TVL of competing LSD pools.




---
**Additional resources on Frax Ether:**
- [Frax Finance's Docs](https://docs.frax.finance/frax-ether/overview)
- [Jack Corddry's Flywheelpod interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ovcG90sEY4U)
- [Fraxgener 200x's threads](https://twitter.com/napgener/status/1593067760850173952)
